CREATE TABLE statement is used to create a table in a database. 
Database tables are organized into rows and columns. 
Each table must have a name and can have any number of columns (minimum 1 column is required). 
Each column must have a data type which determines the type of values that can be stored. 
CREATE TABLE command will fail if a table is already existing in the database with the same name. 
All tables must have a unique name.

DROP TABLE statement is used to remove an existing table from the database.
DROP TABLE statement is used to drop an existing table from the database.
The syntax for DROP statement:
        DROP TABLE <Table name>;
Note:- Tables without any reference with the child table can be dropped using the DROP statement given above.

The parent table in the database cannot be deleted before deleting all its child tables basically the tables with which its foreign keys are associated with.

DROP TABLE <Table name> CASCADE CONSTRAINTS;
CASCADE CONSTRAINTS clause should be added to the DROP statement to drop all the referential integrity constraints that refer to primary and unique keys in the table.

Table level constraint can be specified after all columns used in the constraint have been defined. 
It is not necessary to specify them after all columns in the table are defined. 
Composite constraints can only be specified as table level constraints.

Various constraints that can be created on database tables are:
NOT NULL, PRIMARY KEY, CHECK, UNIQUE, FOREIGN KEY
We can also specify DEFAULT value for a column. Oracle database does not consider DEFAULT as a constraint.

NOT NULL Constraint prevents a column from accepting NULL values. 
NOT NULL can only be applied as a column level constraint. 
Constraint name is optional and it can be specified by using CONSTRAINT keyword.

A column can be given the default value by using DEFAULT option. 
The data type of column and default expression must be the same. 
DEFAULT option can be provided for nullable as well as NOT NULL attributes. 
Oracle database does not consider DEFAULT as a constraint.

PRIMARY KEY constraint on a column ensures that the column cannot contain NULL and duplicate values. 
We can have only one PRIMARY KEY in a table.

UNIQUE constraint on a column ensures that two rows in a table cannnot have same value in that column. 
Unlike Primary Key, UNIQUE constraint allows NULL values. A table can have many UNIQUE constraints.

We need to use ALTER TABLE command through which the structure of the existing table can be changed without any loss of data. 
It can also be used to rename a column, change the data type of a column and to add or remove constraints.

Insert statement is used to add tuples (records) to the table.
If column names are not used then values must be provided for all columns in the order of their specification during table creation.
If column names are used then the data provided in the values clause must have the same data type of column at same position.
Multiple rows can be inserted through a single INSERT statement only when it is used with SELECT statement. 
While inserting data, column values should match column type definition
(e.g., you can’t insert a textual value into the numerical column/attribute). 
If the column is of strings or date time or characters, they need to be enclosed in single quotes(You cannot use double quotes). 
String data is case sensitive and will be stored as given within quotes. 
If the data is numeric, you don't need the quotes. NULL also should not be enclosed with quotes.

Select is the most commonly used statement in SQL. 
The SELECT Statement in SQL is used to retrieve or fetch data from a database. 
We can fetch either the entire table or according to some specified rules. 
The data returned is stored in a result table. This result table is also called the result-set.
With the SELECT clause of a SELECT command statement, 
we specify the columns that we want to be displayed in the query result and, optionally, 
which column headings we prefer to see above the result table.

The usage of DISTINCT is used to print the values only once while the use of SELECT.

The % after any attribute is considered as the rest of the string enclosed in the single ''

A SELECT statement can have many clauses so it is important to understand the order in which these are executed to provide the result. 
However, for ease of understanding we can refer to the execution order by FJWGHSDO.
A quick way to remember this is to use the mnemonic "Frank John's Wicked Grave Haunts Several Dull Owls". In this section we will focus on FROM, WHERE, SELECT and DISTINCT keywords.

The first step is always the FROM clause as we need to identify the tables from which data has to be fetched.
SELECT must be always be executed after the WHERE clause, e.g. we can have a query

        SELECT Ename FROM Employee WHERE Id = 1;

Here the filtering needs to happen on an Id column which is not included in the SELECT clause. 
Unless SELECT executes after WHERE this functionality cannot be supported.
DISTINCT removes duplicates based on all columns of the SELECT clause. 
These columns could be a subset of all columns of the table OR may even contain derived columns through the use of an expression. 
Thus DISTINCT is dependent on SELECT clause and it's execution must happen after SELECT clause.

