1 Develop the HTML page named as “Myfirstwebpage.html”. Add the following tags with relevant content. 
    1. Set the title of the page as “My First Web Page”
    2. Within the body use the following tags: 
        a) Moving text = “Basic HTML Tags” 
        b) Different heading tags (h1 to h6) 
        c) Paragraph 
        d) Horizontal line 
        e) Line Break 
        f) Block Quote 
        g) Pre tag 
        h) Different Logical Style (<b>, <u>, <sub>, <sup> etc.)

2 Develop the HTML page named as “Table.html” to display your class time table. 
    a) Provide the title as Time Table with table header and table footer, row-span and col-span etc. 
    b) Provide various colour options to the cells (Highlight the lab hours and elective hours with different 
    colours.) 
    c) Provide colour options for rows. 

3 Develop an external style sheet named as “style.css” and provide different styles for h2, h3, hr, p, div, span, 
time, img & a tags. Apply different CSS selectors for tags and demonstrate the significance of each. 

4 Develop HTML page named as “registration.html” having variety of HTML input elements with background 
colors, table for alignment & provide font colors & size using CSS styles. 

5 Develop HTML page named as “newpaper.html” having variety of HTML semantic elements with 
background colors, text-colors & size for figure, table, aside, section, article, header, footer… etc.

6 Apply HTML, CSS and JavaScript to design a simple calculator to perform the following operations: sum, 
product, difference, remainder, quotient, power, square-root and square. 

7 Develop JavaScript program (with HTML/CSS) for: 
    a) Converting JSON text to JavaScript Object 
    b) Convert JSON results into a date 
    c) Converting From JSON To CSV and CSV to JSON 
    d) Create hash from string using crypto.createHash() method 

8 a. Develop a PHP program (with HTML/CSS) to keep track of the number of visitors visiting the web 
page and to display this count of visitors, with relevant headings. 
b. Develop a PHP program (with HTML/CSS) to sort the student records which are stored in the 
database using selection sort. 
12082024

9 Develop jQuery script (with HTML/CSS) for: 
    a. Appends the content at the end of the existing paragraph and list. 
    b. Change the state of the element with CSS style using animate() method 
    c. Change the color of any div that is animated. 
    
10 Develop a JavaScript program with Ajax (with HTML/CSS) for: 
    a. Use ajax() method (without Jquery) to add the text content from the text file by sending ajax request. 
    b. Use ajax() method (with Jquery) to add the text content from the text file by sending ajax request. 
    c. Illustrate the use of getJSON() method in jQuery 
    d. Illustrate the use of parseJSON() method to display JSON values. 