Square and Cube root
    Square:
        Square of any number:
            Take the number in the given question.
            check the nearest tens of the particular number.
            add and subtract the difference between the nearest tens and the given number.
            We obtain two numbers now, multiply these numbers and add the square of the difference number to it to obtain the square of the given number.

        Square of number ending with 5:
            eliminate the 5 from the given number.
            multiply the obtained number with the next number.
            concatinate the obtained number with 25 and hence the obtained number is the square of the number.

    Square Root:
        Know the squares of the numbers from 1-10.
        Check the last digit.
        Now in the given number eliminate the lst two digits.
        Check the nearest square of the hence obtained number( smaller than the initial).
        Consider the lesser number square nearest to the obtained number.
        Now add the lesser number square and its square root.
        From the known values of the squares from 1-10, check for the last digit and then add the occurances.
        If multiple occurances of these numbers then, check for the added value if the added value is less then Consider the lesser among the two.
        If it is more then Consider the larger among the two.
        Hence this number is the required square root.

    Cube Root:
        Know the cubes of the numbers from 1-10.
        Check the last digit.
        ignore the last 3 digits.
        Hence now check for the lesser number square of the hence obtained number.
        concatinate the square root with the ignored 3 digits.
        Hence this number is the required cube root.

To find the number that with addition to the given number will be a perfect square/cube:
    Factorize and obtain the factors of the given number.
    Ignore the numbers repeating twice as the factors for square and thrice for cube.
    multiply the remaining numbers and the obtained overall number, this number is the nearest perfect square.
    subtract this number with the given number.
    This is the required answer is hence obtained.

Square of a decimal number:
    will have twice and number of decimal places in the number.

For nested root questions(same number seperated by +/-)[For questions such as  (√x+√x+√x)]:
    Check the value i.e square root of the number.
    Consider the factors with the differences as 1.
    if the symbol in the nested question is + then Consider the greater value.
    if the symbol is minus its the lesser number.

For nested root questions(same number)[For questions such as  (√x√x√x)]:
    x is the answer.

When the value of a fractional square root is asked:
    Check to obtain a square number both in numerator and denominator by multiplication.
    divide the hence obtained number outside the square root (easier).
    The required answer is hence obtained.

For higher value roots(more than cube root):
    write the number as the power of 1/x if x is the numbered value of the root to be found.
    wtite the fractions in terms of cube and square roots and hence obtain the answer.

For numbers with rooted part in the denominator:
    multiply the consequent symboled value both in denominator and numerator.
    Hence we get a non rooted number in the denominator.
    find the value in the numerator and hence obtain the value.

Know the value of basic square operations:  
    formula for simplified versions of sum of squares subtraction etc.